I'm Satinder Singh.
Thanks [inaudible]
and Adam for inviting
me for this.
So I'm at deep mind right now,
I'm on leave at the
University of Michigan.
I'm going to talk about
the problem of where
do rewards come from in
reinforcement learning.
Now, when we all study
reinforcement learning,
we assume the rewards
are given and the
rest we study how to
optimize those rewards.
But could be an interesting
question to ask where do
these reward come
from to begin with.
So the way I'm going to set
this question up is by talking
about the preferences-parameters
confound.
That's a mouthful, so I'm going
to break it down for you.
So the starting point when we're
doing sort of AI is
for an agent-designer
that has an objective or
extrinsic reward function that
specifies preferences
over agent behavior.
So I am the agent designer.
I'm designing an agent.
I have preferences over
the agent's behavior.
That's my objective or
extrinsic reward function and
often it's too
sparse and delayed.
So the question then becomes
what function should
I give the agent?
What should the agents
reward function be?
Where do the rewards come
from in another words?
So when we think
about it this way,
the single reward function
that you read about,
reinforcement learning,
confounds two roles from the
designer's point of view.
Simultaneously, in
reinforcement learning agent,
it embodies or it
captures preferences
that is it expresses the
agent-designer's
preferences over behavior.
It's also parameters because
through the reward hypothesis,
it expresses the
RL agents goals or
purposes and therefore becomes
parameters of the
actual agent behavior.
So the same single
reward function in
the standard RL framework
captures two things,
preferences by the
agent-designer or
agent behavior and
as parameters or
whatever RL algorithm
the agent is
using to convert the reward
function into behavior.
The question that I'm asking
is these roles seem
distinct and should
they be confounded into a
single reward function.
So the answer I'm going to
suggest is that they should not
be though we can imagine two
different reward functions.
So here's a diagram of
the standard reinforcement
learning agent
where the reward function is
assumed to be part
of the environment.
The credit is part
of the environment
and then the agent's task is to
optimize some cumulative measure
overlap reward function.
Here's another diagram
in which we blow up
the agent into let's
call it the organism,
in which inside the
agent is a critic which
then rewards the agent and then
the agent optimizes as
an external environment,
which played the role of
the previous environment
which the extrinsic
reward would lie.
Of course, when you
think of the organism,
you'd think of natural organisms.
For example, you would think
that evolution would
have been able to reach
inside us and configure
our internal reward function and
sets a locus of adaptation.
So agent reward is internal or
intrinsic to the agent
because there are
parameters in essence to
be designed by the agent-designer
in artificial agents or by
evolution in natural agents.
So many people think about
designing reward function.
There are many approaches to it.
For example, inverse reinforcement
learning is a way of
converting expert behavior
into a reward function.
Reward shaping are ideas
about how to change
the reward function to
make the reward function
more efficient for the
agent to learn from.
A preference elicitation
is a way of eliciting
preferences or rewards
from an agent-designer.
Mechanism design in economics
thinks about how to
design rewards and so on.
There are many other
heuristic approaches,
often very successful empirically
in designing reward functions.
I'm going to tell you
what a little line
of work that I've
been pursuing called
the optimal reward framework
or the optimal reward problem.
So what is the optimal
reward problem?
Again, as I've been
arguing there are
two different notions of reward.
One which we can't change
because the true reward is
the objective reward
denoted here by R_0 or R_o.
Then the agents reward which
is the internal reward us by.
So the optimal reward
problem in English,
shown back in the slides
is the following.
Given space of reward functions,
what is the reward function
I should give the agent so
that in translating the
reward function to behavior,
the agent ends up optimizing the
agent-designer's or
objective reward function?
So that's the optimal reward.
If you give me a space
of reward functions,
you can essentially use
any algorithm you want
potentially to search
over the space and
design or recover or
discover the reward
function that optimizes
the agent's behavior from
the agent designer's
point of view or
the extrinsic with
the objective reward
point of view equivalent.
So that's the optimal
reward problem.
It's a search problem.
It's a problem that
we can solve any way.
We can think of it
as a meta problem,
write an outer loop where you're
optimizing the reward were
the inner loop is optimizing
the behavior given the reward.
That's why I'm going to
show you a couple of
quick ideas but we've
developed my lab for optimizing
the internal reward.
So here's the very first ideas.
Very simple intuition we call
PGRD or Policy Gradient
for Reward Design.
It stems from the following
simple observation.
We've always had policy gradient
approaches for optimizing
an extrinsic reward.
Most policy gradient
approaches take
parameters that specify
the policy in some way.
One way to think about
the intrinsic reward
is there is just parameters
that are in effect
parameterizing the
policy of the agent.
So just as policy
gradient methods can
optimize parameters
of the policy,
they can optimize the
internal reward function.
That's one approach is
basically using gradients of
the extrinsic reward with respect
to policy parameters which
are intrinsic reward parameter.
So we did this in a
particular paper,
NIPS 2010, and I'm
going to tell you
a little bit about
it by this slide.
So this slide
describes how you can
compute the gradient
with respect to
the intrinsic reward parameters
when you do policy gradients.
So the first box on
top shows you how
you can define the gradient of
the objective reward or a
trajectory with respect to
the probabilities of taking
actions embodied in the policy.
The second part tells you how
you can take the
gradient with respect to
these policy choices
or probabilities of
actions with respect to
the parameters of the
intrinsic reward.
It's basically a pretty
straightforward iterative process
and you can compute it.
That way, the agent can update
its intrinsic reward over
time as it learns through
experience in the environment.
So one of the first
projects we did
was to use this
image [inaudible] ,
were we showed how you
can use this procedure,
PGRD policy gradient
for award design,
to optimize the intrinsic
reward function to use with
UCT as a policy
gradient algorithm,
as a planning algorithm
to compute behavior given
an intrinsic reward.
So we have UCT which is
actually a look at
search procedure
for computing policies
from a model.
UCT has fixed number
of trajectories
and fixed steps and
it searches over as
parameters and we produce
an intrinsic reward
and we were able to do
gradients through the
UCT planning procedure
to obtain the reward function.
So I didn't walk through
the algorithm details but
we did PGRD with UCT.
Here is a slide
showing results at
25 ATARI games where
the vertical line
is if a bar is on
that means we were
able to just match the
performance in UCT.
As bars go to the right,
that means we are improving
the performance in UCT.
You can see that most
of these games you were
able to improve
performance significantly.
So the only thing
that's being learned in
these results is the
intrinsic reward function.
Recall we're using
these UCT to plan.
So the conversion of
intrinsic rewards of
behavior is through UCT
which is a fixed
planning procedure.
The only thing we're
learning from experience is
the intrinsic reward
function and we can see
that we can improve
performance significantly.
So this was for
doing this one over
planning with respect to
a planning algorithm.
Can we do this with respect
to a learning algorithm?
So that's the next part
of the result I'm going
to tell you about.
This is work presented
NeurIPS in 2018,
my students Zeyu
Zheng and Junhyuk Oh.
This was exactly the same idea
except now we're going to do
it through a learning algorithm
rather than through a
planning algorithm.
It wasn't clear to me to begin
with that you can actually
take the gradients
through a learning procedure
to update the intrinsic rewards
because conceptually you can
imagine that you perturb
the intrinsic reward,
you perturb the
dynamics of learning.
So what we need to do is
take the gradient through
that change in dynamics of
learning and update
the intrinsic reward
to update then the
learning process.
That's what we show
it that you can do
through a metagreated procedure.
So here's a diagram
for the agent.
In this diagram, the
agent has two boxes.
The policy box, we called
the actor critic box which
will take an intrinsic reward
or in this case the sum of
an extrinsic reward and do
policy gradients to critic
to update the policy.
We're going to use this
meta gradient procedure
for updating the
intrinsic reward.
So I'm going to skip the notation
but there is a specific
way of updating
the parameters of
the intrinsic reward
given that we're updating
the parameters of the
policy using actor critic.
So the first equation shows you
a standard actor critic update.
Essentially, I think
this is showing
the reinforced version of
the actor critic update.
The second set of
equations shows you
how we update the parameters of
the intrinsic reward with respect
to the update of the
policy parameters.
So we can move
the intrinsic reward
parameters in a direction
that improves the performance
of the learned policy.
Here's just some results where
we did this on a
bunch of Atari games.
You can see the
names on the X axis.
On the Y axis we show
the percentage improvement
we get over using
just the extrinsic reward with
the same actor
critic architecture
that we use with the
learn intrinsic rewards.
So we can see that learning
the intrinsic rewards improves
performance quite significantly.
So I'm going to stop and
just conclude by saying
that as we think
about the reinforcement
learning problem,
the textbook and all the
lectures you'll hear about,
start by assuming
the reward function
is given and the goal of
the agent is to convert
that reward function
into good behavior.
The question we asked
in this little snippet
is how do we design those
reward functions effectively?
The bottom line answer that
this little snippet
tells you about is
a gradient procedure for updating
the intrinsic reward so that we
can learn better
intrinsic reward.
This could be useful in
many different ways.
The way I emphasize today is
that the agent can be bounded
in many different ways.
So the intrinsic
reward is a method
for overcoming those bounds.
Value alignment between user
and the agent designer.
This can be thought of in
that way can also be
thought of as a way
of addressing problems and
continue of lifelong learning.